---
layout: post
title: "MegaMiner AI 16"
author: "Herberger"
---

Anarchy has never been more scripted
-------------------------------------------

Megaminer AI 16 Anarchy is this weekend (**November 14th 2015**)! If you haven't
signed up yet register for the competition right over [here](https://megaminerai.com/competition/megaminerai-16-anarchy/) <---

The cost to compete is $24 per team, up to three members per team. Not four,
not five, 3. Three is the most people that can be on a team.  To top it off, for
each team member that is a member of Missouri S&T's ACM chapter the team will receive a $4 discount.

Wanna join Missouri S&T ACM? Check out their [website](http://acm.mst.edu/).

The Prizes
-----------

Thanks to our awesome sponsors, the prizes should cover the chaos:

* First Place: **$500**{: data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="right" title="Make Money!" }
* Second Place: **$220**{: data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="right" title="Earn Money!" }
* Third Place: **$120**{: data-toggle="tooltip" data-placement="right" title="That's like 100 Saturday Allowances" }

Anarchy Schedule!
------------------
Anarchy will begin at 3:00 PM on Saturday November 14th, 2015 and will end at
3:00PM on Sunday November 15th, 2015. Check out the schedule below for
details. Pharoah will be taking over
[Toomey Hall](https://goo.gl/maps/HJA95) on Missouri S&T's campus.


#### Saturday April 18th

* **3:00 PM** Meet in room 199 Toomey Hall for Opening Ceremony
* **3:30 PM** Head upstairs to computer labs (follow the signs)
* **3:35 PM** Begin coding
* **5/6  PM** Pizza will be provided for your hungry stomachs
* **8:00 PM** Snacks will be replinished
* **9:00 PM** QuickDraw (1) Tournament (Winners win their registration fee back)


#### Sunday April 19th

* **12:00 AM** Snacks will be replenished again
* **8:00 AM** Breakfast
* **9:00 AM** QuickDraw (2) Tournament (Winners win their registration fee back)
* **12:00 AM** Food of some sort will be provided
* **3:00 PM** Code submission closed. End of competition
